Day #18
------------
22 participants present at 09:00
---------------------------------
Introduction to Microservices
Monolith Application
Netflix OSS & Spring Cloud

the above objectives from 24-27th june

Netflix OSS & Spring Cloud
	Eureka Server and client
	RestTemplate (spring boot)
	Circuit breaker

Day before yesterday (tuesday) we created a monolithic application for ecommerce.
Yesterday, we split that into multiple rest apis and register them as microservices in eureka server.
we created a MVC project (frontend) that access the microservices using 
	RestTemplate via circuit breaker.	

Circuit breaker provides us the stability when a service is down. When a service is down or has error or not available or busy, the retries are creating a problem, so circuit breaker, stops the retries and redirect the request to an error method.

What i asked you to try, 
	Admin must be able to select a customer
		and find all sales happened by the customer

	Admin must be able to select a product
		and find all sales happened over the product

Need you suggestions. How to implement this?

in Customer class, we add a property

	@OneToMany(mappedBy = "customer")
	private List<Sales> sales;
	

whenever an annotation ends with "many", then jpa will create a table
to avoid that, we use mapped by

	@OneToMany(mappedBy = "customer")
	private List<Sales> sales;
	
	whenever a customer object is retrieved,
	will it always contain list of sales?
		if so, when will it fetch?
			when customer object is retrieved?	EAGER
			or
			when we call customer.getSales()?	LAZY

LAZY is good. 
	only when required, we retrieve sales
	it is latest/ up to date

you retrieve customer at 09:00 am
call getSales() at 10:00 am
	the data may be old?

hibernate cache level 1 is always implemented
hibernate cache level 2 must be configured by us.


Let me show you the problem because of circular reference
	Customer has list of sales
	Sales has customer

if you get customer object
	it has sales
		each sales has a customer
			that customer has list of sales
				every sale has customer

can you see a stack overflow
this stack overflow happens only in JSON string.

not in java object.
why?
	in java object, it has reference NOT a copy


	a has b		and b has a list of a
it is not copy of b
it is reference of b
so there is no stack overflow


----------------------------------
We have done so many changes now.

customer rest api
	customer has list of sales
	sales has customer (we use json ignore)
	sales has product (we use json ignore)
because, in customer, they are not significant

check this workspace "microservices"
eureka-server
customer-rest-api
product-rest-api
sales-rest-api
ecom-mvc

Try it now

i have done finding sales by customer.
you will do finding sales by product.

Have you all completed?

Steps:
1) Sales entity class already has "product" property
2) Product entity class should be updated now
	List<Sales> sales;
	ensure the OneToMany with mappedBy is used
	
3) This is done in all rest apis.
but
4) in product rest api
	Product class
	List<Sales> sales;	is not ignored
	
	Sales class
	product:		is ignored

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Spring security
----------------------
	Tell me what do you think spring security is?

Preventing data access from unauthorized members
Provides authentication
Authentication
Authorization

It is not related to files. it is about access to our restful webservices

Authentication vs Authorization
	what is the difference?
Authentication
	checks if it is a valid user or not?
	you are an user
	are you really the user, whom you claim to be?
	username & password are accepted and checked to decide if the authentication is successful or failure

Authorization
	a valid user is allowed to access or not?
	some users are allowed to access some urls
	which user is allowed what? that is authorization
	user might have logged in successfully. But it does not mean, the user can access any url
	RBA		Role Based Access is used in Authorization


Spring boot security has changed a lot from 
	spring boot 2x to 3x

A major change has happened.

I will give you little bit of demo in spring security now.
After you practice them, i will give you ellaborate demo on that.

Demo1:
----------
while creating a spring boot application, we include the following dependency:
	spring boot security

1) create a spring boot app
	Maven
	Jar
	17
	Java
	group:		com.wipro.demo
	artifact:		security-demo
	package:		com.wipro.demo
	dependencies:
		Spring web
		Spring security
Finish

2) Lets create a controller
package com.wipro.demo.controller;

import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;

@RestController
public class MyController {

	@GetMapping
	public String home()
	{
		return "Hello world";
	}
}

3) application.properties
	server.port=7000

4) run the application as "Java Application"
	or "Spring boot app"

in console, we notice this:

Using generated security password: 79b63259-7a91-4de7-bc2d-f64d141b989d

This generated password is for development use only. Your security configuration must be updated before running your application in production.


5) lets go to browser:
http://localhost:7000/

we are seeing a login page now. instead of showing "Hello world"

what should i enter in this login page?
	username:	user
	password: 79b63259-7a91-4de7-bc2d-f64d141b989d


now, we see "Hello world"

once this login is successful, we will be allowed to access any other urls

now, lets create couple of getmappings and restart. 
When we restart the application/service, a new password is generated.

52b84c9e-a1b1-4e97-b128-e6188648192b

now, i am able to login once, and after that, every other url is allowed.

Now, how can we change the username and password (of our choice) instead of random one?
in application.properties:
-----------------------------------
spring.security.user.name=shreyansh
spring.security.user.password=praveen


now, restart.

In console, you do not find any password being generated.

lets check any url in browser

we are able to login using the username and password we configured in the application.properties.

Task:
--------
Try it yourself:
Create a spring boot application and create couple of controller methods and try to access them
	i) using generated password
	ii) using configured password

Next:

But, application.properties is a text file, and there is no privacy to keep password there.


in spring boot applications, we have different ways of configuration
	1) xml configuration		(very rarely used)
	2) application.properties	(most commonly used)
	3) configuration class		

Configuration class has changed completely from spring boot version 2.x to 3.x



in 2.x
--------
@Configuration
public class MyConfiguration extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter


in 3.x 	(we are using 3.x)
---------------------------------------
we create a configuration class as a POJO class and use annotations

lets understand the ant matchers and permitall.

In any application, we need to access the urls only after authentication.
but login and signup must be allowed without this security layer.


	//admin
	@GetMapping("/about")
	@PreAuthorize("hasAuthority('ROLE_ADMIN')") 
	public String about()
	{
		return "About us";
	}
	
	//user
	@GetMapping("/contact")
	@PreAuthorize("hasAuthority('ROLE_USER')") 
	public String contact()
	{
		return "Contact us";
	}


Task:
security-demo
	check this project now
	we have created 2 users in our configuration
	and roles are USER and ADMIN

	in controller, we use @PreAuthorize to specify the roles allowed to access the method.

check and ask doubts.

-----------------------------------------------------
This login form where username and password are entered, will not be useful when we use POSTMAN
while using postman, we do not use browser and hence, no login page will come.
so, we need to create a controller Post mapping for login itself.
that url, we can access from postman and send the credentials in body

Next question.
Every REST api runs independently. 
Every call to rest api is STATELESS.
Means, each call does not know about previous call.

So, authenticated user will start calling other methods. But REST api do not remember them (that they have been authenticated)

in browser, it uses cookies( session ) to remember that you are authenticated. But in rest api, called from postman??????
So, how can we ensure that subsequent calls to rest api is allowed (after authentication)?

now, we are discussing about calling rest apis from postman. 
Later, we will be calling rest api from ReactJs applications.

Arun says JWT tokent. That is the answer.

You are purchasing a ticket for a movie in the morning. The show timing is in the evening.
How will the staff know that you have purchased the ticket?
How will they authorise you to enter the screen?
	You show a ticket to them. They will allow if you show the ticket.

Same way, a rest api can allow you to access by checking your JWT token.

JWT	-	JSON Web Token

JSON 	-	Javascript Object Notation


Go through the Techademy Tutorial videos
and also progress in Assignment submission.

Ask doubts wherever required.




