Day #15
----------
10 participants present at 9:00 am
--------------------------
Introduction to Microservices
	What is microservices architecture? compared to monolithic architecture.
A monolithic application or an application in monolithic architecture, is developed as a single tightly coupled components application.
For example: what is the difference between a laptop and a desktop?
	A laptop is tightly coupled with keyboard, touchpad, monitor, cpu all in one unit.
	A desktop, is loosely coupled with keyboard, mouse, monitor, cpu, etc.
		If one has a problem, we can replace it easily.
			keyboard can be changed easily.
	they all work together as separate components together.


Instead of developing an application as a single unit, we are splitting that into multiple units working independently to serve the purpose. 
Advantage?
	multiple teams can create those multiple units parallely, and also they run parallely. 
	some of the units can be provided by 3rd party. Means, all the services are not created by us only.
	
Tell me one example for an ecommerce website.
	amazon
		does not create all the components of their amazon.com
	for example,
		the payment part.	
		you are provided with variety of payment options
			credit card
			debit card
			wallet
			UPI
			net banking

	all these payment options cannot be coded by amazon. 
	amazon, borrows the functionality from appropriate services.
	if one of the service is failed, then customer is able to choose another option and proceed.
	
	each being a separate web service.


	if upi service is down temporarily, it does not mean amazon is down for that time.
	
1) developing the services independently
2) services developed by different service providers
3) one service being down does not affect other services
4) provides modularity and easy to maintain

IMO microservices architecture is very good when it comes to Enterprises Integration

EAI		Enterprises Application Integration

How MakeMyTrip application is able to show real time information about Flights?
	how they are able to show the rooms availability on a particular time? real time data
	
	API

so, developing applications as multiple APIs that work together is the key for microservices.

we develop lot of restful webservices

Webservices
	SOAP
	RESTful

SOAP provides a single interface / url for the entire webservice that contains lot of web methods.
so it is not based on microservices architecture.

RESTful webservices provide unique URL for every web method
so it is based on microservices architecture.

we can develop a restful webservice using dotnet technology
and that restful webservice can be called from a program developed using java technology.
	this is called as interoperability

microservices are interoperable.

	if you see any rest controller, you created, 
		every web method has url
		there can be some methods for internal purpose, they may not have url, and they are for internal purpose.

Learning microservices, involves, learning to develop restful webservices and additional features of microservices.
	interact between multiple services		feign client/ rest template/ web client
	manage the services health and monitor them	eureka server and client
	balance the load between services	load balancer
	circuit breaker

learn the microservices architecture and principles


Techademy has these chapters with diagrams

What time is our assessment #2

Once you are able to login to assessment, kindly close the meeting window.
or close the meeting window first.
come back to meeting only if you face issues.

Syllabus for assessment 2
-------------------------------
Spring Boot
Spring REST
Spring Data
Spring Test and API Documentation			Swagger, OpenAPI documentation
Reactive Programming using Spring Boot WebFlux
	Mono
	Flux

	change in dependencies		
	change in repository
	
in techademy whatever related to these chapters
go through them

Core Java coding challenge
-----------------------------------
	every challenge is combination of one or two or three tasks
	more the task, more complex.
	if you can split the challenges and handle one by one, you can solve it.


ex:
	finding if a number is prime number or not 		is easy for many of you
	find the list of prime numbers between x and y	is difficult for some of you
		what to do?
			if possible, if allowed, create a method that accepts number and returns true / false (prime)
			call that method from a loop
			this makes it very easy.

	finding the list of numbers, where the number itself is prime and every digit is prime	(is very difficult)
		again, have the method that finds if a number is prime or not
		call it in a loop
		if prime, then split the number into digits, call method for every digit to check if it is prime
		every time, you check, any "false" received, "continue" to next iteration of loop

	finding each digit of a number (you should have practised already)
		i) using %10 and /10
		ii) convert num to string and get char arr of string
			char to int		will give ascii		(-48 will give digit)

-----------------------
Prepare for the assessment 2 and introduce any value discussions or doubts clarification

Spring Boot
Spring REST
Spring Data
Spring Test and API Documentation			Swagger, OpenAPI documentation
Reactive Programming using Spring Boot WebFlux


Techademy handon assignments
	have you started uploading your assignment solutions?

So, every day, you are supposed to upload the assignments and progress continuously. 
Do not keep it pending for someday to work on this.

Day by day you need to submit assignments.

Yes, before deadline you have to complete. But doing day by day will give you confidence.
Not to wait and do on deadline day.



